
MANAGEMENT SCIENCE 
Vol. 68, No. 7, July 2022, pp. 5233–5251 http://pubsonline.informs.org/journal/mnsc 
ISSN 0025-1909 (print), ISSN 1526-5501 (online) 
The Creator Economy: Managing Ecosystem Supply, Revenue Sharing, and Platform Design 
Hemant K. Bhargavaa 

a Graduate School of Management, University of California Davis, Davis, California 95616 Contact: hemantb@ucdavis.edu, https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9268-2234 
(HKB) 
Received: August 6, 2020 Revised: December 15, 2020; April 13, 2021 Accepted: May 11, 2021 Published Online in Articles in Advance: 
December 13, 2021 
https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2021.4126 
Copyright: © 2021 INFORMS 

Abstract. Many digital platforms give users a bundle of goods sourced from numerous creators, generate revenue through consumption of these goods, and motivate creators by sharing of revenue. This paper studies the platform’sdesign choices and creators’ partici­pation and supply decisions when users’ (viewers’) consumption of goods (content) is .nanced by third-party advertisers. The model speci.es the platform’sscale: number of creators and content supplied and magnitudes of viewers, advertisers, and revenues. I ex­amine how the distribution of creator capabilities affects market concentration among creators and how it can be in.uenced by platform design. Tools for ad management and analytics are more impactful when the platform has suf.cient content and viewers but has low ad demand. Conversely, reducing viewers’ distaste for ads through better matching and timing—which can create win–win–win effects throughout the ecosystem—is impor­tant when the platform has strong demand from advertisers. Platform infrastructure im­provements that motivate creators to supply more content (e.g., development toolkits) must be chosen carefully to avoid creating higher concentration among a few powerful cre­ators. Investments in .rst-party content are most consequential when the platform scale is small and when it has greater urgency to attract more viewers. I show that revenue sharing is (only partly) a tug of war between the platform and creators because a moderate sharing formula strengthens the overall ecosystem and pro.ts of all participants. However, revenue-sharing tensions indicate a need to extend the one-rate-for-all creators approach with richer revenue-sharing arrangements that can better accommodate heterogeneity among creators. 
History: Accepted by David Simchi-Levi, information systems. 
Keywords: platforms • content • revenue sharing • advertising • multisided markets • ecosystem • developers 
1. Introduction 
Platforms that provide technology infrastructure to enable and coordinate interactions among multiple groups of participants are dominating business and social activity today (Parker et al. 2016). This paper discusses the economic interplay in multisided plat­forms that connect contributors (or creators or devel­opers), viewers (or consumers), and advertisers. Several large platforms attract hundreds of millions of viewers with “goods” (or content, such as music, movies, games, TV shows, blogs, recipes, how-to vid­eos, apps, etc.) that are sourced from thousands of creators and whose consumption is .nanced by ad­vertising payments. Such platforms are booming in categories such as music, video entertainment, virtual sports, and casual gaming and are the dominant mod­el in many countries (Westcott 2020). Examples in­clude Snap Games, Twitch, Jinri Toutiao, Facebook’s in-stream videos, Pandora (free version), Plex, Ama­zon’s IMDb TV, Comcast’s Peacock, Pluto TV, Xumo, Hulu, Crackle/Sony, The Roku Channel, and broad­cast TV. Viewers see a bundle of content and care about bundle scale and variety, the presence of view­ers attracts advertisers, and the platform shares its ad revenue spoils with creators to motivate their partici­pation and supply. Even in platforms that feature user-generated content, such as TikTok, Instagram, or YouTube, a substantial part of consumer traf.cis driven by content from stars, celebrities, and other popular .gures, such as the nine-year-old Ryan Kaji, whose toy box–opening videos made him the number one YouTube star in 2019 and 2020.1 
Conversely, these star creators are the dominant recipients of advertis­ing revenues from the platform, thus rendering a three-sided platform comprising viewers, creators, and advertisers. 
This paper develops a model to structure and ana­lyze this kind of enterprise and examines the follow­ing questions. How do the economic characteristics of these three groups (creators, viewers, and advertisers) 

5233 
determine the overall scale of such a platform, includ­ing the magnitude of content supplied by creators, demand generated by the platform, and the level of advertising featured on it? How is this supply distrib­uted among creators, and what is the likely level of fragmentation or concentration in the creator ecosys­tem? And how should these outcomes in.uence the platform’s approach to internal investments and de­sign decisions related to creator ecosystem manage­ment, level of advertising, and revenue sharing with creators? The analysis pertains to platforms that are free to consumers, that monetize their value through advertising rather than consumer fees, and for which the share of advertising revenue is the creators’ prima­ry motive to offer their outputs through the platform. 
Figure 1 
depicts the elements of the model. Creators collectively supply an amount Q of content to the plat­form with creator j’s output labeled as Qj (and Q jQj). Creators vary in their ability to generate views and attract advertising, and this heterogeneity is captured by a unit creation cost cj(> 0) for generat­ing a unit view. Consumers are attracted by content and collectively generate V views with V increasing in Q (but at a diminishing rate) and decreasing in the level of advertising A chosen by the platform. The platform may also have .rst-party content Q0, includ­ing content purchased or licensed directly and not subject to revenue sharing, which creates intrinsic val­ue and generates a0 views. Advertisers are attracted by the platform’s potential to reach customers, and the aggregate demand from advertisers when the plat­form charges a per-view price p is written as A(p). The platform earns advertising revenue Rp · A and re­turns a fraction . to creators with each creator receiv­ing a share proportional to the contribution. Creator j’s output Q* j is chosen to maximize its payoff, its share 
Figure 1. (Color online) Stylized View of an Advertising-Driven Three-Sided Platform 

of ad revenue net costs of content. The primary levers of control for the platform are (i) the advertising level A (conversely, the per-view price p), (ii) the revenue-sharing parameter . and intrinsic value a0 (or .rst-party content Q0), and (iii) additional platform design variables that impact the exogenous parameters in the model (e.g., ß, d, f that affect price sensitivity of adver­tiser demand, viewer sensitivity to ads, and sensitivity of ad demand to the quantity and variety of content). The revenue-sharing rate is considered identical across all contributors (Oh et al. 2015). This is common in real-world platforms, which, despite pressures and incentives to set heterogeneous sharing rates, avoid doing so to prevent a .oodgate of negotiations around revenue sharing or to avoid the expense of negotiating with thousands of contributors in a large bundle (Shil­ler and Waldfogel 2013). 
A few recent papers examine content production and revenue sharing in multisided content platforms. Topics analyzed include whether platforms should pursue consumer fees or advertising or both (Amal­doss et al. 2021), creators’ behavior under monetary and altruistic motivations (Tang et al. 2012), market power and industry structure (Evans 2008), monetiza­tion models (Peitz and Valletti 2008, Calvano and Polo 2020), marketing allocations to the consumer and ad­vertiser sides (Sridhar et al. 2011), the balancing of ad­vertising and content (Dewan et al. 2002, Godes et al. 2009, Amaldoss et al. 2021), and the impact of creator competition and consumer characteristics on the revenue-sharing incentives of the platform and crea­tors (Jain and Qian 2021). Relative to these papers, a key contribution of the present paper is to incorporate the decision making and preferences of the platform, creators, and advertisers (with viewers addressed through an aggregate demand function) into a coher­ent framework and to link the outcomes in this three-sided dance to platform design elements and the revenue-sharing arrangement. The modeling frame­work embeds a richer treatment of an ecosystem of heterogeneous creators, endogenizing both their par­ticipation in the platform and level of output while capturing both codependence with the platform (cre­ating revenue by bringing viewers and advertisers into the system) and competition against the platform and within creators (all vying for a share of revenue). With this framework, the paper shows how the incen­tives and behavior of the advertiser side moderate the revenue-sharing tension between the platform and creators, it explains how the predicted participant be­havior and economic outcomes can guide platform design, and it studies the interaction between revenue-sharing rules and ecosystem performance along multiple metrics. 
The application of this framework generates several insightful results. First, it provides a way to identify likely platform scale along multiple metrics, the content it would receive from creators, what set of cre­ators would supply content, and the level of advertis­ing and ad revenues that the platform would generate (Section 3.1). Second, it offers insights on alternate ways in which the platform can alter its design to in­.uence creators’ actions and platform scale (Section 3.2). Platforms have multiple levers for in.uencing different parts of the ecosystem and need to deploy them astutely. For instance, a platform that has strong viewership may prioritize tools for ad management and partnerships to pull in advertisers (e.g., Face­book). Other platforms that need more content to bring in viewers might prioritize creator support tools (e.g., Snap and Instagram), or build media partner­ships for more content (e.g., Toutiao). Marketing to attract more viewers may be called for when the plat­form sees strong demand from advertisers but lacks viewers. I show that interventions such as software development toolkits (SDKs) and creator support pro­grams best promote the platform’s interest if they are easy to absorb by all creators and level the playing .eld among them, thereby making creators more ho­mogeneous and competitive. However, if such inter­ventions involve a steep learning curve or signi.cant adoption costs, then they might well amplify differ­ences among creators, which leads to greater concen­tration in content supply. 

Third, I study the manner in which the revenue-sharing tension between creators and the platform in­tersects with the platform’s control over advertising policy (Section 4). Although creators in general desire a higher revenue share . (i.e., a greater percentage of ad revenues), this desire is moderated by the knowl­edge that high . forces the platform to raise ad prices, thus lowering the amount of advertising and, hence, hurting their own advertising revenue share (Section 4.1). Conversely, the platform is deterred from setting . too low for that would reduce the contributions of creators and cripple the basic content fuel of the eco­system. The paper provides a foundation for analysis of a range of issues in such three-sided platforms, in­cluding those related to platform competition, market power, industry concentration, and anticompetitive practices. 
2. Model 
The fundamental unit of interaction among the three types of platform participants is a “view.” Views are driven by content from creators. A view creates an opportunity for the platform to display a paid ad by an advertiser. One of the key decision elements for the platform, having sourced content Q,is to decide how much advertising, A*,to in.ict on view­ers. This decision (covered in Section 2.2) governs the ad revenue generated on the platform (revenue R(Q) p(Q)·A(Q)), the share available to creators, and the magnitude of content they submit to the plat­form (covered in Section 3.1), in turn, in.uencing the number of views, advertising demand, and ad reve­nue. Anticipating this, the platform sets its revenue-sharing level, advertising policy, and other design elements, pursuing its economic objective, which com­bines its share of advertising revenue, its value for the viewer base, and costs of serving viewers and manag­ing the content supplied by creators (formalized in Equation 
(1)). I derive the overall equilibrium (p, A, Q) by .rst solving for (p, A) given Q in Section 2.2 
and then for Q {Q1, :::, Qk} in Section 3.1. The sequence of decisions is depicted in Figure 2. I develop insights regarding the choice of Q0 in Section 3.2.4 
and regard­ing . in Section 4. Section 3.2 
examines the relation­ship between other platform design elements (d, f) and outcome metrics and as moderated by several ex­ogenous elements related to the ecosystem. Notation employed in the .gure and in the model development is summarized in Table 1. 

2.1. Demand from Viewers and Advertisers 
Viewers are attracted to quantity and variety in the platform’s content base, and advertisers are attracted by the quantity and type of viewers. Let v(Q) denote the number of viewers attracted to a platform that hosts content Q. The platform uses its matching tech­nology to place advertisers’ messages against viewers of interest to each advertiser. Let u denote an arbitrary advertiser’s expected utility for a single ad view to a single viewer, and let f (u) be-bu be the density of ad­vertisers with utility level u. For an advertiser interest­ed in viewer class k, the expected utility of a single ad view is the product of the advertiser’s value Uk for a class-k viewer times the probability pr(k) that the plat­form targets the ad to a viewer in class k. The greater the number of viewers on the platform, the higher the chance that the platform delivers the ad to a suitable viewer, that is, pr(k) is increasing in v(Q). More gener­ally, an advertiser interested in multiple viewer clas­ses has expected utility u kUk ·pr(k), increasing in v(Q). Thus, taking platform scale (i.e., number of viewers v(Q)) into account, an arbitrary advertiser’s 
Figure 2. (Color online) Key Decisions and Time Sequence Table 1. Model Elements and Notation 


Exogenous elements  
V(Q)  a(Q)- dA  Viewer demand function when platform provides Q content with A ads  
A(Q)  ß(Q)e-bp  Advertising demand function against per-view price p  
b > 0  Price sensitivity of ad demand, re.ects  
heterogeneity in advertisers’ utility from  
ad views  
ß > 0  In ß(Q) ßQf , scaling parameter for ad demand, affected by platform’sad  
placement and targeting techniques  
. . R  Cost of matching suitable ads to viewers  
c(Q)  Platform’s cost of managing content (net of  
per-viewer value)  
Platform design elements  
cj > 0  Creator j’s “exogenous” cost to produce  
content capable of generating a unit  
view, arranged in increasing order, so c1  
is the most powerful creator (however,  
the platform can in.uence the  
magnitude and distribution of cj ’s  
through interventions such as developer  
toolkits, training programs, and how-to  
videos)  
f .(0, 1)  In the setting ß(Q) ßQf , f re.ects elasticity of ad demand to content scale  
Q, increased by diversity platform’s user  
pro.le and by improving ad targeting  
and matching of ads to users  
d > 0  Consumer distaste for ads, lowered by  
improving ad placement and timing,  
and with better matching of ads to users  
Decision variables  
A*(Q, .), p *(Q, .) Qj(.)= 0  (Platform) advertising level and price to maximize .(p; Q, .)(Creator j) level of content contributed to platform to maximize creator pro.t  
p(Qj; Q - j) given choices Q-j of other creators  
. .(0, 1)  (Platform, creators) revenue-sharing parameter (creators get . fraction of ad  
revenue)  
Q0, a0 = 0  (Platform) own content, intrinsic value (  
Outcome metrics  a(0)) provided to consumers  
K  Number of feasible creators in equilibrium  
Q*(.)A, V  (i.e., make pro.t from contributing Qj) K j 1 Qj Equilibrium level of views and ads  
R(Q*)  A(Q* , p *), V(Q*)Ad revenue generated to be shared among creators and platform  
.(Q*)  Platform’s pro.t  

Notes. Optimal values of p * and A* are computed knowing Q and .; Qjs are computed knowing .; . is set .rst. See Figure 2. 
per-view expected utility is of the form uU · ß(v(Q)), interest if advertising were free, and b re.ects the where ß is increasing (likely with diminishing returns) price-sensitivity effect of heterogeneous advertiser in v(Q) and U has the same distribution as u. Then, 
utilities. With reparameterization of the ß and v(Q) the total advertising demand A(p) if each ad were functions, we can rewrite Bß(v(Q)) simply as ß(Q), 
p -bp

priced at p is A(p) B(1 - ß(v(Q))f (u)du) and A(p) ß(Q)e , and the revised ß function is in­
0 

B · ß(v(Q))e-bp, where B is the platform’stotal ad creasing in Q at diminishing rate. 
Assumption 1 (Advertiser Demand). The platform’s de­mand from advertisers at a per-ad-view price p is 
-bp
A(p) ß(Q)e ß (Q)
with b > 0, ß (Q)> 0, ß (Q)=0, and < 1: 
ß(Q)=Q 
Groups of items in the content vector Q {Q1, :::, Qk} could relate to each other in multiple ways: be of similar genre, be partial substitutes, be in­dependent or even complementary. Similar to Jiang et al. (2019) and Bhargava (2021), each viewer may consume multiple pieces of content; viewers have het­erogeneous preferences over type and quality, and their valuations across groups of items could be a mix of subadditive or superadditive. Because of this, the number of viewers v(Q) is increasing in Q though at a decreasing rate because of possible substitution effects (McIntyre and Srinivasan 2017, Bhargava 2021). Sup­pose that, if there were no advertising on the platform, each viewer would, on average, generate m views within a unit time period. This average m would itself be an increasing function of Q because more content should cause viewers to engage more. Thus, the maxi­mum potential views on the platform are a(Q) m(Q)v(Q), interpreted as the (maximum) level of views that would occur if all content is served with no advertising. The function a(Q)is increasing in Q at a rate faster than ß(Q)because the latter’s construction already involves a concave function applied over v(Q). In the presence of advertising and when viewers dislike advertising, the total number of views falls and is decreasing in total number of ads displayed. Let dA denote this drop, where d re.ects viewer dis­like for ads, and its magnitude depends on the nature of advertising, including the level of targeting and relevance of ads. The platform may have levers to con­trol d, for example, by improving ad targeting, im­proving its technology for matching ads to views, or by carefully timing the ads to have the best effect on user engagement (Kumar et al. 2020). The platform’sscale as measured by number of views is formalized here. 
Assumption 2 (Views). The platform’s supply of views is V a(Q)-dA with a0 a(0)=0, a (Q)> ß (Q)> 0, and d > 0: 
Figure 3 
illustrates the platform’s demand functions from viewers and advertisers against different levels of Q. For viewer demand, the assumptions on a(Q)ensure that demand increases with content level Q but at diminishing rate of increase, and -d < 0 cap­tures negative sensitivity to advertising as in (Dewan et al. 2002). The advertising demand function ensures that ad supply increases with Q but at a diminishing 
Figure 3. (Color online) Platform’sDemand onConsumer and AdvertiserSides forDifferent Levels of Q 

rate. It implements the perspective that higher Q brings a mix of content units that are partially alike (i.e., substitutes, which drives ß (Q) toward zero) and diverse (complements, higher ß (Q)). Finally, the nega­tive exponential demand for advertising re.ects an elasticity of supply bp at per-ad-view price p.The mod­el setup re.ects a posted-price environment, but it is consistent with a mechanism by which instantaneous price is discovered through a real-time auction that re­.ects instantaneous demand for ad impressions. 
The platform’spro.t function has three compo­nents: (i) its share of advertising revenue ((1 -.)pA)minus (ii) costs for sourcing, managing, and display­ing advertisements and (iii) costs related to content management. The advertising-related cost increases both against the amount of advertising and with the level of consumer distaste for advertising because it causes the platform to put in more effort in .guring out the best way to display ads to viewers. Hence, the second part can be written as .dA (with . > 0). Third, the platform has an operations and marketing cost c(Q) (with c (Q)> 0) in serving content to consumers, covering technology, curation, data privacy, content policing, etc. Platforms often also place an intrinsic value on their user base (Gupta and Mela 2008, Gupta 2009), which would amount to hV ha(Q)-hdA.Col­lecting all these observations, we can reparameterize to make the notation more compact: rede.ne . as . - h and c(Q)as c(Q)-ha(Q)), and the rede.ned . and c(Q) can each be negative if h is very high. Then, with content Q and advertising level A leading to V views, the platform’s total payoff function combines its share of advertising revenue and the adjusted costs of man­aging content and viewers. 
Platform Profit 
. (1 -.)pA -.dA -c(Q)
-bp
((1 -.)p -.d)e ß(Q)-c(Q): (1) 

2.2. How Much Advertising? 
The platform provides consumers a free service and .­nances itself through ad revenues. It must balance the amount of advertising it in.icts on users: more ads have a .rst-order effect of diminishing the user expe­rience and causing a reduction in views, but they also (by returning more revenue to creators) incentivize creation of more content, which then plays a positive role in encouraging more views. This section explores the trade-offs and balance in advertising, primarily as a stepping stone to examine additional issues in the ecosystem around content contribution and revenue sharing. 

The platform’s choice of advertising level A* in­volves a trade-off between greater monetization of views and a reduction in the number of views as advertising intrudes on the consumer experience and causes a reduction in views. A feasible adver­tising level is one that maintains a positive level of V (i.e., A = a(Q)). Beyond this, a platform may im­
d 
pose a stricter constraint, such as no more than one ad per n views, whichplaces anupper bound on 
a(Q)
the equilibrium level of advertising. Let A(Q) 
n+d 
denote this upper bound (when there is content Q); hence, the equilibrium level of advertising must be no more than A(Q). Given a revenue-sharing pa­rameter . and the cost parameter .,the platform maximizes its payoff subject to this constraint. Giv­en Q, the advertising equilibrium (A*(Q), p *(Q))can be computed either by solving Equation (1)for p or for A (where p(A) can be obtained by inverting the expression in Assumption 1). Likewise, the solution 
* 
can embody an optimal posted price p or a price discovered via an auction in which advertisers place bids once the platform has chosen an optimal advertising level A* . 
The optimal per-view ad fee p should, in an interior solution, follow the classic rule that inverse price elas­ticity of advertising demand equals the relative price markup. The elasticity term is (p)-.A = A bp.To
.pp 
compute the price markup, note that the platform earns revenue (1 - .)p from a unit ad, and this ad im­
(1-.)p-c 
poses a cost .d, yielding the markup term .
(1-.)p Now, substituting and applying the optimal pricing rule yields that p * should satisfy the equation 
(1-.)p-.d 
. This yields the following result about the
bp (1-.)p 
platform’s optimal advertising strategy. A formal proof is included in the appendix. 
Lemma 1 (Optimal Advertising). The platform’s optimal advertising strategy corresponding to content magnitude Q has the following per-ad price and advertising level: 
. p * 1 .d
.
. +-1-b.d 
b (1 - .) if a(Q)=(n + d)e1-.ß(Q),
.
. 
A*(Q) ß(Q)e-bp* 
1 - . 
-bp* 
with . *(Q) ß(Q)e - c(Q)
b 
a(Q)
else there is a boundary solution A , 
n + d 
1 ß(Q)(n + d)
p log e : (2)
b a(Q) 
Although Lemma 1 
provides guidelines for setting the optimal price and advertising level, comparative statics also provide additional insights regarding plat­form design and its implication on the advertising ecosystem. For instance, if the platform can improve ad placement to reduce d, it can exploit this gain by showing more ads versus increasing the per-ad price because, although consumers are more willing to see more ads, there is no increase in advertisers’ payoff conditional on ad display.2 
The main solution stated in Equation (2) is valid when viewer demand for con­tent a(Q) is suf.ciently strong relative to advertiser 
= ßQfe-bp* 
demand. If a(Q) for all Q, then an interior
n+d 
solution is guaranteed. If not, it must be that it fails at low values of Q but holds at higher values (because a(Q) grows at a faster rate than ß(Q)). Then, a bound­ary solution in the advertising policy arises when, at the candidate Q, the platform faces relatively strong demand from advertisers but does not generate enough views on which to display ads or if viewers drop rapidly as advertising increases (high d). We dis­cuss this further after computing the remaining piece (Q*) of the equilibrium speci.cation in Section 3.1. 

2.3. Properties of Advertising Equilibrium 
Lemma 1 
satis.es a few intuitive expectations about the optimal design of advertising. First, for a given Q, the platform’s optimal advertising level A* is higher when it has a more attractive user pro.le or better ad targeting technology (ß (Q) is higher or d is low), when consumer sensitivity to advertising (d) is low (e.g., because of more relevant ads), when ads cost less to manage and do not strongly affect the plat­form’s installed base (low ., e.g., when it is highly ma­ture) or when the platform keeps a higher share of ad revenues (low .). Conversely, the optimal per-ad price is higher under the opposite conditions, re.ect­ing the desire to in.ict less advertising on consumers rather than re.ecting greater market power for adver­tisements. Second, if the platform increases its share of ad revenue and drops the creators’ share (.), it then lowers the advertising price. Thus, although creators prefer a greater share of ad revenue, advertisers’ inter­ests are maximized when the platform keeps a higher share. These properties are consistent with anecdotal and empirical observations regarding platforms that are primarily .nanced by advertising. For instance, in the era of search advertising wars between Google and Yahoo! (and Microsoft), it was understood that the average per-click prices on Google were higher than those on competitors not because Google at­tracted more search users but because ads were better targeted, reached a broader pro.le, and led to more conversions.3 
When the matching between viewers and ads is superior, it can also reduce viewers’ dis­taste for advertising (d). This can be highly bene.cial to ad-driven platforms because viewers’ attitude to­ward ads is a critical factor in ecosystem performance. Indeed, combining the effects of d on price and adver­tising level, the equilibrium advertising revenue R(Q) is, ceteris paribus, higher as d decreases (because p * > 1).

b 
3. Content Contribution 
Content served on the platform is sourced from nu­merous creators (or their .nancers) who produce dif­ferent types of content so that the collection, which may include substitutes and complements and unre­lated goods, increases the variety available to viewers. Creators have costs for making content, and their pri­mary motivation for supplying content to the platform is the share of advertising revenue they receive from the platform (Zhu and Liu 2018) rather than exposure, ego, or reputation gains (as in, e.g., Tang et al. 2012, Liu and Feng 2021). Creators compete with each other in generating views and securing ad impressions. In this section, we specify how the economic and techno­logical characteristics of creators and the platform af­fect creators’ absolute and relative contribution to the platform. 
Creators are heterogeneous in their capability to make content. They can differ in available production technology and skills, in talent and star power, or in intellectual properties they own (e.g., rights to stories or characters). Because of these differences, the same amount of content made by two creators (e.g., 10 pa­ges of a blog post) garners a different number of views. Conversely, two creators need to make differ­ent amounts of content and incur different production costs in order to capture the same number of views. To model this heterogeneity, we index creators ac­cording to a parameter cj, which represents the inverse of a demand-adjusted measure of production ef.cien­cy. It is the average cost that creator j would incur in creating content that would garner a unit number (say, 1,000) of views on the platform. Note that this is not a measure of the magnitude of content made by creator j. For instance, a 10-minute movie made using Disney Television studios’ StageCraft system (which was used in creating The Mandalorians and is consid­ered a technological marvel that immerses the cast and production crew inside their computer-generated environments in real time with the help of a massive wraparound LED screen) would fetch many more views than a 10-minute movie created by the average content creator with a standard camera and produc­tion environment. Similarly, a 30-second clip featuring a celebrity is likely to capture more views than a simi­lar clip with an average college student even if the two had the same production quality standards and incurred the same production cost. In our parameteri­zation, the celebrity is de.ned with a lower unit cost parameter cj than the college student. Typically, crea­tors with low cj (i.e., producers of highly popular con­tent, such as YouTube’s Ryan Kaji, Epic’s Fortnite, or Electronic Arts’ Apex Legends) are likely to be sophis­ticated studios, celebrities, and social media stars. Conversely, high cj corresponds to creators with low quality or niche content who, therefore, generate few­er views for the same expenditure. 
Let Qj =0 represent creator j’s content supply to the platform with Q jQj being the total content avail­able to viewers and R(Q) p(Q)A(Q) the total adver­tising revenue generated by the platform (speci.ed in Lemma 1). Then, creator j’s net payoff from sharing Qj
Qj
is . R(Q)-cjQj. Each creator chooses a level of out-
Q 
put to maximize its payoff. Without loss of generality, assume that creators are indexed according to increas­ing cj (with c1 being the lowest cost, i.e., most ef.cient or most popular creator). Let Q-j denote the total con­tent provided by all creators except j (with Q Qj +Q-j). Then, creator j’s payoff function is 
pj(Qj, Q-j) . Qj R(Q)-cjQj
Q 
. Qj *-bp* 
. (ß(Q)p e )-cjQj (interior)
.
. Q Qj a(Q)1 ß(Q)(n +d)
.
. . log (boundary) (3)
Qn +d b a(Q) 
where the interior and boundary cases correspond to the two possible advertising solutions in Lemma 1. Creators’ output levels Qj to the platform are viewed as solutions to a Cournot-type simultaneous game in which each creator picks Qj to maximizes its payoff subject to collective output Q-j from other creators and subject to boundary constraints Qj =0 and individ­ual rationality (IR) constraints .j(Qj, Q-j)> 0, that is, 
R(Q)
cj =. Q ; hence (because of the index order on cj’s), the marginal supplier K is the highest j that satis.es this condition given the remaining choices Q -j for all j < K. The optimal output levels satisfy the property that marginal cost equals marginal revenue given the output choices of other creators. 




3.1. How Much Content Will the Platform Attract, and Who Will Supply It? 
De.ne a feasible creator as one for whom, given the equilibrium choices of other creators, an output level exists that earns it a positive pro.t (i.e., revenue exceeds costs). Let K denote the number of feasible creators in equilibrium under a given set of problem parameters. Creator j’s economic trade-off when de­ciding output level Qj when other creators have out­put Q-j is as follows. At level Qj, j incurs production cost cjQj. Now, consider the effect of raising output by an additional in.nitesimal increment .Q. The incre­mental advertising revenue generated by the platform is R(Q +.Q)-R(Q). Because the incremental amount .Q is added by creator j, its revenue increases by 
Qj+.Q Qj
. R(Q +.Q)-. R(Q). Setting incremental cost
Q+.QQ 
and revenue equal, then dividing by .Q, rearranging terms, and taking limits, we get the set of conditions 
R(Q) Qj R(Q)
cj . --R (Q)
Q QQ 1 R(Q) R(Q)
=Qj . -cjQ -R (Q) : 
. QQ 
By de.nition, Q Qj , however this aggregation must occur only over the K feasible creators, i.e., crea­tors 1:::K (because creators are indexed from low to high cost parameter). Let CK denote the average of the cost indices of these top K creators. Then, the content production equilibrium is as follows. A formal proof is in the appendix. 
Proposition 1 (Equilibrium). The feasible number of crea­tors (K) who make positive pro.t from engaging with the platform and the total content supplied by them (Q), satisfy the simultaneous equations 
.R(Q)
K max : cj = , (4a)
jQ 
CKQ R(Q)
QK 1 - , (4b)
.R(Q) R(Q)-R (Q)
Q 
with outputs and output shares of each creator j being 
.. 
cjQ ß(Q)
Qj 1 - .. .. .R(Q) ß(Q)-ß (Q)
Q 
R(Q) .R(Q)
. -cj -.R (Q) , (5a)
QQ 
Qj 1 cjQ CKQ
1 - 1 - : (5b)
QK .R(Q) .R(Q) 
Equations (4a)and (4b) jointly indicate the equilibri­um level of total content contributed to the platform and the set of feasible producers (identi.ed by the av­erage cost parameter CK) who supply it. Then, the se­ries of Equations (5a) identify the content levels of each of the feasible producers. The IR constraint for all creators is of the form cj =.R(Q) (with the same right-
Q 
hand side (RHS)); hence, it needs to be veri.ed only for creator K,and K can be computed uniquely once the form of R(Q)is .xed. Procedurally, K is computed as the highest k that satis.es the IR constraint with the value of Q given in Equation (4b) and then combined with Equation (4b) to compute Q, and then each Qj is obtained from Equation (5b). Further insights are ob­tained by extending the analysis with an illustrative and suitable form for ß(Q), the sensitivity of ad de­mand to platform scale. 
Writing ß(Q) ßQf (with f < 1) yields an ad de­
ßQfe-bp
mand function A that exhibits a constant 
.A
elasticity factor f (i.e., f .Q =(A=Q)), and satis.es the requirements laid out in Assumption 1. The platform can in.uence the scaling parameter ß through tools (such as Hulu’s Ad Manager) that help advertisers with ad placement, targeting, and analytics. With this additional speci.cation, the optimality conditions for the creators’ choice of Qj (in case of the interior solu­tion) are 
Qj *-bp* 
.j pj(Qj, Q-j) .ßQfp e -cjQj, (6a)
Q 
.pj .ßp * e-bp* Qj
0 =cj 1 -(1 -f) (6b)
.Qj Q1-f Q 
Q cjQ1-f 
=Qj 1 - , (6c)
1 -f .ßp * e-bp* 
where creators 1:::K are the ones that have nonnega­tive pro.t in equilibrium. This enables closed-form solutions of the simultaneous Equations (4a) and (4b) and leads to the following speci.cation of the equilib­rium outcome. 
Proposition 2 (Equilibrium Level of Content). With 
ß(Q) ßQf , p *(Q) 1 b + .d and revenue-sharing param­
1-. 
eter ., the set of creators who can pro.tably supply content is {1:::K}, where 
Ckk
K max : ck = , (7)
kk -(1 -f) 
and the total content collected by the platform from these creators is 
1-f
.ßp * e-bp* K -(1 -f) 1 K -(1 -f)
Q (.p *A*) ,
CKK CKK 
(8) 

tion of Equations (2)and 
(8)in (Q, A) Space Has Q =Q˜ ,Which Is De.ned by a(Q)=ß(Q)e-bp* 
n+d 
and the proportional content share of individual creators is 

Qj Q  1 1 -f  cj K -(1 -f)1 - CK K  ,  (9)  
provided 
that 
Q 
from 
Equation 
(8) 
 ensures  an  interior  

advertising-pricing solution (Equation (2)), that is, 
b.d
+1
1-.
(n +d)e 
a(Q)= CKK Q; (10) 
K -(1 -f) . 
otherwise, Q is lower, obtained as Equation (4b), where 
a(Q)1 ß(Q)(n+d)
R(Q) n+d b log a(Q) from Equation (3). 
The main interior equilibrium solution applies when viewer demand for the platform is suf.ciently strong as a function of Q so that the platform gener­ates enough views on which to display its supply of 
*
ads at p . As shown in Figure 4, this is the region in which Q > Q˜ (which demarcates the boundary in Lemma 1). If this occurs and ignoring the market fail­ure solution (Q 0, A 0), there is a unique (p * , A* , Q*)solution because Equation (8) provides a linear rela­tion between A and Q although A is concave in Q in Equation (2). However, if they intersect at Q < Q˜ (e.g., the point marked x1 in the .gure), then the preceding solution is not valid. The alternate solution Q corre­sponds to saturation advertising, and it must occur on 
a(Q)
the curve that marks A(Q) . In this solution, 
n+d 
though, Q is less than that indicated by point x1 be­cause here the advertising revenue available to crea­tors is lower than the level conveyed by Equation (2); the lower revenue implies that outputs are lower than the implied Q* j s, in turn, causing lower demand from viewers and feeding back into the loop of fewer ads and lower ad revenue and lower content until con­verging to a point x2 corresponding to (p, A, Q). To il­lustrate the boundary behavior, consider the special case in which a(Q) aQf (i.e., it has the same curvature as ß(Q)). Then, Q is given as in Equation (8) 

Figure 4. (Color online) Equilibrium with Interior Solution in (p * 
ßp * e-bp* 
except that the term is replaced with 
a 1 
log (ß(n+d)), and Equations (7) and (9) remain valid. 
n+d b a 
From Equation (7), the number of feasible crea­tors—and whether a speci.c creator j can be a pro.t­able member of the ecosystem—depends not just on j’s cost index, but its position among other creators and the distribution of the cost levels of more ef.cient creators. Loosely speaking, if creators 1:::k are bunched together on cost, and k +1 has substantially higher cost parameter, then k creators are feasible, and k +1 is the .rst nonfeasible creator. Equation (9) iden­ti.es how Qj drops as cj increases. To provide a better understanding, Example 1 
evaluates multiple scenari­os to show how K and Qj are affected by the nature of creators’ relative cost parameters. 
Example 1 (Distribution of Creators’ Outputs Under Different Distributions of Cost Indices). Consider four scenarios, each with 400 potential creators but differ­ing in the cj vector. The top panel of Figure 5 
shows the cumulative distribution function for the cost indi­ces. In scenario 1, which has the sharpest difference between low-and high-cost creators, a few creators (cj .[4, 6]) have far lower cost than others (distributed in [6, 15]). The cj’s in scenario 2 are quite homoge­neous, huddled in [14, 16]. The cj ’s in scenario 3 are in [4, 16] as in scenario 1 but spaced out uniformly. In scenario 4, a few creators have lower costs than others, but the differences between them and higher cost crea­tors are not as ampli.ed in scenario 1. Scenario 1 fea­tures the lowest cj ’s and also the greatest heterogeneity. 
1. 
In scenario 1, the sharp heterogeneity between a few lowest cost creators (with cj .[4, 6]) leads to their domination and heavy concentration of output. 

2. 
Creators’ cj ’s in scenario 2 are relatively homoge­neous (all huddled in the [14,16] interval); hence, out­put is distributed among many more creators (higher K although total Q is lower) with even the most ef.cient (c1) garnering only a small fraction of viewers. 


, A* , Q*)Occurs if Either a(Q)=ßQfe-bp* for All Q or the Intersec­
n+d 


Figure 5. (Color online) How the Distribution of Creator Capabilities Affects Ecosystem Outcomes 

Notes. The top row shows cj ’sof 400 potential creatorson the x-axis (the black bullet marks c1;other cj ’s are displayed as x-axis ticks) and the cu­mulative density on the y-axis. The next two rows show associated output shares % Qj for f 0:3 (middle row) and f 0:1 (bottom row). In sce-
Q 

nario 1, the Qjs are highly concentrated among a few creators whose costs are far lower than all others. 
3. 
Scenario 3 also has a few low-cost creators (cj .[4, 6]); however, there are several of them in this range, leading to a more even distribution of output, and the higher K leads to higher Q overall than scenar­io 1 although the average cost of feasible creators is similar in the two scenarios. 

4. 
In scenario 4, a few lower cost creators stand out as in scenario 1, but they are less extreme, causing high­er K, less concentration, and lower Q. 


5. Across all four panels, the middle row with f 
0:3 has more concentration relative to the lower row with f 0:1. 
The examples convey two primary insights. First, when creator capabilities (cj ’s) are more homoge­neous, then K is higher and market concentration low­er because homogeneity creates more competition among creators. Second, higher f leads to more con­centration of content and rewards among fewer crea­tors. The intuition is that already-powerful creators are better able to leverage the higher scale enabled by higher f (i.e., the rich get richer). Thus, platform de­sign changes that enhance f (e.g., more diverse user pro.le) can lead to greater concentration among crea­tors. Conversely, innovations that limit consumer ad 

3.2. Implications on Platform Design 
A platform can increase its scale and other outcomes— consumer views, advertising demand, ad revenue, platform pro.t, and surplus of other participants—in multiple ways. These include design changes that en­hance targeting and matching of ads to views (which may reduce d and/or increase f), marketing invest­ments that attract a more diverse user base (yielding higher f), increased sales effort to reach advertiser seg­ments (higher ß), better data about users’ preferences (which may improve .), creator development pro­grams and toolkits to assist with content creation and distribution (which cause changes in the cj ’s), and better bargaining power with creators (lowering the revenue-sharing parameter .). Although all innova­tions help increase output from creators and ad reve­nues, they have different merits with regard to other crucial factors, such as number of creators, viewer response, and market concentration among creators. The following discussion is framed in terms of the interior solution (unless speci.cally mentioned) be­cause even the boundary solution with lower Q has similar structural properties as noted in the preceding illustration. 
distaste (i.e., lower d) or improve ad targeting increase 
Trivially, reducing d has an all-around advantage to 
platform scale and pro.ts without affecting the distri­
the platform: viewers tolerate more ads, which in­
bution of market share among creators. 
creases ad revenues and attracts more content from 

creators, in turn bringing more viewers and increasing the platform’spro.ts. Other elements force various trade-offs. First, under conditions that lead to an inte­rior solution (e.g., high Q, low ß; see Equation (8)), the following analysis suggests that a platform should consider (a) increasing sales effort toward recruiting advertisers in order to get higher ß and higher reve­nues from advertising; (b) building tools that help ad­vertisers with managing targeting and impact of ads, thereby increasing their value from participation in the platform; and c) investing in tools that improve production ef.ciency of weaker creators, thereby in­creasing K and reducing market concentration among creators (versus creator-focused activities that maxi­mize Q). Conversely, under conditions for a boundary solution (e.g., low Q,low V(Q)), it is more impactful to (a) improve timing and location of ads (versus bet­ter ad-matching tools) in order to reduce d and create space for more ads; (b) invest in SDKs and creator-focused tools directed to popular creators and media partnerships for content, aiming to increase Q rapidly to attract more viewers and increase views (although with more market concentration among a few power­ful creators); and c) increase the platform’s stand­alone value through additional features or through .rst-party content. 
3.2.1. Creator Support Programs and Developer Tool­kits. The size of the platform ecosystem (K, the num­ber of feasible creators that earn positive pro.t from their participation in the platform) is an important in­dicator of the health of the platform ecosystem. It ex­erts in.uence on consumer demand for the platform, total content offered on it, and potentially the relative bargaining power between the platform and creators. It is intuitively obvious that creators bene.t and make more content if their cj parameters are lowered. Plat­forms aim to do this by producing toolkits for design and editing of content. YouTube runs a creator acade­my and offers or encourages creation of master classes and tips for growing one’s YouTube channel. Similar­ly, various ad software platforms run workshops and certi.cation programs. These interventions lower the cj ’s and lead to higher Qj, but do they necessarily also increase K, the number of feasible creators? From Proposition 2 
(Equation (7)), the distribution of cj ’sis a crucial determinant of K; hence, whether K increases with a reduction in cj’s depends on how the reduction alters the heterogeneity in cj ’s. Example 1, discussed earlier, shows this vividly, and Figure 5 
illustrates the joint effect of the magnitude of cj ’s and the degree of homogeneity among them on K. We next discuss the more general point that the effect of these resources depends on whether they help make cj ’s more (or less) dissimilar versus just lower. We evaluate the effects in terms of both the overall magnitude of content (Q) and ad revenues (R(Q)) and how these are distributed across creators. 
Corollary 1 (Proposition 2). A reduction in cj ’s leads to an increase in Q. Interventions that reduce all cj ’s by a cons­tant amount .c, thus amplifying the cost differences be­tween creators, lead to lower K and greater concentration in the creator ecosystem with an increase in the share Qj of the 
Q 
lower cost creators. Conversely, interventions that make creators more homogeneous (e.g., by reducing variance, rel­ative to mean, between cj ’s) lead to higher K and to more uniform distribution of market share across creators. 
As highlighted in the second part of Corollary 1, greater homogeneity leads to larger K because, from Equation (7), K is identi.ed by the .rst cj that is “relatively distant” from the previous one. From Equation (9), homogeneity in cj ’s also spreads output more uniformly across creators, reducing dominance of the most powerful ones. This suggests that the plat­form is better served by creating technologies that not only lower cj ’s, but also level the playing .eld among creators (i.e., the new cj ’s are more homogeneous). Hence, interventions such as training programs and toolkits that contain specialized features for making content creation and distribution more ef.cient best promote the platform’s interest if they are easy to ab­sorb by all creators and level the playing .eld among them (i.e., they are most novel and useful to the small­er or higher cost creators), thereby making creators more homogeneous and competitive. Such an ap­proach is most useful in an interior solution in which the platform has suf.cient viewers and content to .ll in the demand from advertisers. However, if these in­terventions involve a steep learning curve or signi.­cant adoption costs or, otherwise, are only attractive to the already-ef.cient creators, then these innova­tions amplify differences among creators and cause greater concentration in content supply. Such a direc­tion may be acceptable when the platform has strong demand from advertisers but not enough views (i.e., a boundary solution) making it vital to increase content and attract more viewers even at the expense of great­er reliance on a few creators. 

3.2.2. Viewer Diversity and Ad Targeting Technology. 
The platform can also improve its scale by increasing f (trivially, .Q > 0), for instance, by attracting more di­
.f 
verse viewers and creators and, in complement to that, developing better matching technology that serves more suitable ads to each viewer. Proposition 2 
illuminates the tension faced by the platform in doing so. The platform’s advertising demand increases with f (which captures the sensitivity of advertisers’ value per-exposure to total Q or V), which it can achieve by improving consumer diversity and its technology for targeting or matching ads to consumers. Total content supplied and .ow of advertising revenue should in­crease with higher f. Counter to intuition, though, doing so leads to fewer viable creators: higher f leads to lower 

K. Thisisbecause higher f implies higher gains from producing more content, making the most powerful cre­ators (ones with lower cj) highly aggressive in supplying content to the platform and leaving little room for higher cost creators in the revenue-splitting game. 
Corollary 2 (Proposition 2). Increase in f (weakly) causes greater concentration of content contribution among fewer creators with an increase in the share of the more powerful creators (low cj ’s) and overall increase in output Q. Formal-
Q
ly, .K = 0, and .Qj= 00 when cj9Ck.
.f .f 
Thus, although the platform would like to increase f and improve the economics of the ecosystem, doing so makes the most powerful creators highly aggres­sive in supplying content, thereby increasing their 
market share (Qj). This increase in degree of concentra-
Q 
tion among creators not only affects social dominance in the consumer market, but also in.uences the bar­gaining power of the platform relative to creators. For a given distribution of cj ’s, an increase in f can poten­tially increase the bargaining power of a few domi­nant creators, which raises the risk for the platform of demands for lower . (if K gets suf.ciently low). This trade-off would be more acceptable to a platform when it is operating under a boundary solution (high demand from advertisers, creating urgency for more content and more views) than under an interior solu­tion in which the platform has attracted suf.cient creators and content and would rather focus on in­creasing its share of ad revenues. 
3.2.3. Changes in the Creator Ecosystem. Interven­tions that increase K by compressing the differences between cj ’s can also increase competition among cre­ators and make them more aggressive in supplying content to the platform. This leads to higher Q, in­creasing platform scale and ad revenues. Interven­tions such as toolkits and training academies have a substantial positive spillover effect on the platform, not only attracting more creators and higher output, but excessively higher output because more of them simultaneously compete to capture a greater fraction of advertising eyeballs and revenues. The distribution of cj ’s can also be altered on account of events external to the platform, such as mergers between creators. Imagine two scenarios that differ in the number of crea­tors and their cj ’sbut the same CK (mean cost of feasible creators). Proposition 2 
provides the insight that, nor­malizing across cost, more creators implies greater con­tent, re.ecting the “overproduction” insight mentioned earlier in Example 1 
(comparing scenarios 1 and 3). 
Proposition 3 (Overproduction by Competing Creators). Other things being the same (., ß, b, f, d), the total output in an ecosystem with creators 1:::K whose cost indices c1, :::, cK satisfy cK = CKK (where CK is the average of 
K-(1-f) cj ’s) exceeds the output from fewer creators with the same average cost. 
The crucial aspect of the result, having normalized for mean cost, is that the existence of multiple creators increases competition among them for share of adver­tising eyeballs, causing each of them to supply excessive content on the platform. This is good for consumers (as­suming content is a good) and for the platform. Thus, interventionssuch astoolkitsand training academies have a substantial positive spillover effect on the plat­form, not only attracting more creators and higher out­put, but excessively higher output because more of them simultaneously compete to capture a greater frac­tion of advertising eyeballs and revenues. 
3.2.4. First-Party Content and Intrinsic Value. The dis­cussion thus far assumes that the platform relies on third-party creators to provide all the value that brings in viewers. However, a(Q) in the viewer demand function V a(Q)- dA can include an order-zero component a0 that represents stand-alone or intrinsic bene.t from the platform resulting from fea­tures (e.g., .le storage, pro.le development, single-sign-on to other sites, calendar, etc.) that are valued by users independent of their content preferences or advertising. Moreover, Q might include, along with the other Qjs, a component Q0 that represents .rst-party content developed by the platform or other con­tent it purchases or licenses that is not subject to ad revenue sharing. How do these two factors a0 and Q0 in.uence ecosystem performance, advertising, and content provision by external creators? 
First, consider the effect of a0 under a boundary so­lution (p, A, Q). Because advertising is limited to A 
a(Q) 
(on account of insuf.cient viewers to deploy ad 
n+d 
level A*), causing the platform to sacri.ce some ad revenue, speci.cally p *A*- p *A. An increase . in a0 
.
would extend the advertising constraint by and di­
n+d 
rectly increase ad revenue by p. to offset the cost of increasing a0. However, there are additional spillover effects. The higher ad revenue would motivate crea­tors to increase Qj, bringing in more viewers, stretch­ing the advertising constraint further, and feeding the cycle again. If the investment in a0 exceeds a tipping point (which would depend on a speci.c function for a(Q)), then this process converges to an interior equi­librium (p * , A* , Q*) at which the constraint just no lon­ger binds (i.e., A* A), creating a substantial payoff from the investment in stand-alone bene.ts. The effect of investing in Q0(.rst-party content) has similar ef­fects because the platform can direct all possible advertising to third-party content views (because there is a scarcity of views). Finally, the effects of in­vesting in a0 or Q0 are weaker when the problem has an interior solution because the advantage from in­creasing views is lower in the absence of suf.cient ad­vertising to exploit the extra views. This discussion con.rms the intuition that investments in stand-alone bene.ts and .rst-party content are most consequential at the early stages of the platform when its scale is rel­atively low and it has greater urgency to attract more views. 

4. Sharing Advertising Revenue with Content Creators 
Our analysis thus far has considered the platform’s advertising and content creators’ supply strategies given that the platform passes . fraction of advertis­ing revenues to creators. The optimal or equilibrium level of . is subject to multifaceted issues, including relative market power and codependence. On one hand, each creator is tiny and relatively inconsequen­tial to the platform. On the other, the platform’s busi­ness model depends on creators, and they potentially have an ability to create coalitions. These factors cre­ate alternative possibilities for the revenue-sharing game (Oh et al. 2015). Our focus, therefore, is mainly to shed light on how . affects the overall activity lev­els and payoffs of different actors and the overall health of the ecosystem. 
The platform’s payoff function given a revenue-sharing parameter . and using the advertising de­mand function A(Q) ßQfe-bp is 
.(.)(1 -.)R(Q)-.dA -c(Q) 
-bp* 
((1 -.)p *-.d)ßQfe -c(Q) (11a) 
1 -. 
-bp* 
ßQfe -c(Q), (11b) 
b 
where, with optimal advertising and content creation, the optimal values of p and Q and K are 
1 .d .p .d
2p + , (12a) 
b (1 -.) .. (1 -.)2, 
1-f
.ßpe-bp K -(1 -f) 1 
Q 
CKK .QQ 11 -bp .p
+(Eq: 16), (12b) 
.. 1 -f. p .. 
Ckk
K max : ck = : (12c) 
kk -(1 -f) 
The revenue-share parameter . determines what fraction of revenue is kept by the platform (1 -.)ver­sus passed on to creators. However, the choice of . is not a zero-sum game in which creators prefer . 1 and the platform wants . 0. For creators, the penalty from a very high . is that it causes the platform to shift ad prices higher, causing lower ad volume and thereby driving down creator revenues. For the platform, if it sets . too low, then the low rewards to creators cripple content contribution, the basic fuel that drives the entire engine. Therefore, a judicious choice of . considers effects throughout the ecosys­tem, including implications on long-term health and scale. 
The identi.cation of the optimal revenue-sharing level—from the platform’s perspective while also including interests of other ecosystem participants— requires some consideration of the platform’s under­lying objectives. One obvious objective is to maximize the pro.t function in Equation (11). However, because of c(Q)and .dA, the pro.t-maximizing choice of . negatively distorts the total ad revenue passing through the platform, which is an important objective for the platform and a metric of overall scale. Another measure of platform scale is the total volume of content available on the platform, Q.Hence,it is meaningful to consider the implications on platform performance with regard to each of these metrics. 




4.1. Maximizing Platform Scale 
The revenue-sharing parameter has multiple im­pacts throughout the platform ecosystem, including on the levels of contributed content, viewership, ad­vertising revenue .owing into the ecosystem, and the platform’s share of the revenue. There are two key forces to consider whose effect is summarized as follows. 
Corollary 3 (Proposition 2). The equilibrium level of Q in­creases in . up to some threshold value of . (i.e., .Q > 0 ini­
.. 
tially) and then decreases. 
First, higher . naturally motivates creators to pro­vide more output per dollar of advertising revenue that it generates. The consequent increase in views has a positive impact on advertising demand. This ex­erts a positive effect on ad revenue into the ecosystem. Second, however, because the platform sets a per-exposure advertising price to maximize its ad revenue payoff (adjusted for intrinsic value placed on viewer­ship), it then sets a higher ad price thereby depressing advertising demand and, consequently, exerting a negative force on content creators. The interaction of these two forces leads to a .rst positive and then neg­ative effect of . on Q so that Q peaks at an interior value of ..As for the effect on R(Q), note that the revenue grows as a multiple of price and advertis­ing; hence, the . at which R(Q)peaks should be lower than the peak for Q but higher than for A(Q). Theseideas areformalized in thefollowing result. 

Lemma 2 (Optimal . to Maximize Q and R(Q)). The val­ues of . that maximize total content on the platform and, respectively, total ad revenue are 
.Q
for Q : Sol: (1 -.)3 +(b.d)(1 -.)2 
+(b.d)2(1 -.)-(b.d)2 0 (13a) 
for R(Q): 
.R(Q) Sol: (1 -.)3 +(b.d)(1 -.)2 
(b.d)2 (b.d)2 
+(1 -.)- 0 , (13b) 
ff 
and each equation yields a unique value inside the feasible region (0, 1). 
Corollary 4 (Lemma 2). The value of . that maximizes Q is decreasing in b, ., and d. The same is true for . that maximizes R(Q), and this value is increasing in f. 
Figure 6 
demonstrates the effect of . on Q and R(Q) (and, additionally, A(Q), the scale of advertising on the platform) for multiple illustrative values of prob­lem parameters (speci.cally, f 0.3 and 0.1 and d 
0.1 and 0.2). A useful insight from the lemma and il­lustrated in Figure 6 
is that an improvement in ad tar­geting, which can help reduce d (consumer distaste 
for advertising), increases .R(Q) (i.e., ..R(Q) < 0). A re­
.d 
duction in d is the platform’s core desire and responsi­bility and eliminates a “waste” from the ecosystem. It is notable that, in order to optimally leverage the gains from improving d, the platform should increase the share of ad revenue that goes to creators! This creates a win–win–win situation with regard to investments needed to reduce d. 
Corollary 5 (Lemma 2). The revenue-sharing rates that maximize revenue R(Q) versus output Q, have .R(Q) < .Q, and the gap between the two gets wider as b, ., d increase and narrower as f increases. 
It is notable too that the optimal value of . depends only on b, ., d, which are exogenous parameters in the model. Moreover, the platform’s other decision variable, 
*
the per-ad price p also depends only on these three parameters (besides .). Consequently, the platform can set and announce its operational policy once it has suf.­ciently accurate market research information regarding consumer demand (d) and advertising demand (b). 

4.2. Differential Revenue Sharing and Platform–Creator Conflict 
Lemma 2 
identi.es the revenue-sharing parameter that maximizes total content on the platform and, respec­tively, total ad revenue. These two metrics are a mea­sure of the vibrancy of the overall platform ecosystem. Moreover, maximizing them might well be in the inter­est of the platform because, in the long run, platforms do well when their ecosystem partners do well. Al­though this perspective of maximizing R(Q)ignores the costs included in the model, namely, b.dA and c(Q), it is still meaningful because company leadership and an­alysts pay attention not just to bottom-line pro.tbut also to top-line revenues and total volume .owing through the platform. Nevertheless, it is useful to also examine how a platform would pick . when 

Figure 6. (Color online) Effect of . on Q, A(Q), and R(Q) for Higher and Lower Values of f (Top andBottomRows) andwith Two Values of d 0:1(Dashed) and d 0:2 (Solid) 

purely maximizing its short-term self-interest as stated in Equation (11), that is, (1 -.)R(Q)-b.dA- c(Q).It is obvious that,because of these additional costs and because the platform collects only a fraction (1 -.) of ad revenues R(Q), the pro.t-maximizing value . * is less than .R(Q) with the exact form and value depending on the form of c(Q)func­tion and .. 
The fact that . * < .R(Q), combined with the effects of . on Q (i.e., .Q), suggests that, if the platform were to 
.. 
pursue its short-term self-interest in choosing ., this would lead to a reduction in platform scale, including in Q, V,and A. This disconnect is partly a result of the factthatthe model assumes—consistent with the practice of all dominant platforms that employ revenue-sharing business models—a uniform non­discriminatory linear revenue-sharing scheme. That is, a single per-unit commission parameter is de.ned (i.e., 1 -.,such as the 20%–30% rate that is observed in many platforms), multiplied with the value or scale of each creator, and applied identical­ly to all creators regardless of size or nature of busi­ness. In Congressional testimony on July 29, 2020 (in the so-called “big tech hearing” before the House Antitrust Subcommittee),4 
contradicting charges that Apple offered powerful app developers a larger revenue share, Apple CEO Tim Cook reemphasized the uniform revenue-sharing policy, saying “it treats all apps the same.” This nondiscriminatory policy protects platforms from potential haggling with each creator; however, it can cause con.ict with (a) large creators who feel that the rate is ex­cessive given their scale, (b) creators for whom the platform’s enablement appears insubstantial (e.g., ClassPass and Airbnb’s complaints in the big tech hearing against Apple’s 30% rate applied to virtual events),5 
and (c) creators with low margins for whom a 30% revenue share can cripple their business.6 

How might the platform avoid such con.ict while still retaining the bene.ts of a simple, compact, and nondiscriminatory policy? This dilemma is analogous to pricing problems involving heterogeneous partici­pants or coordination problems with asymmetric information and/or misaligned incentives. One com­mon solution to mitigate the problem is to use coordi­nation techniques, such as two-part tariffs. For instance, a .rm that is facing ef.ciency loss because it sets a uniform per-unit price to both light and heavy users of a product can avoid some of this loss by add­ing a .xed access fee that applies to all users regard­less of scale and then lowering the per-unit price charged for usage. In the case of our three-sided plat­form that thrives on network effects and positive de­pendence, an access fee would have the detrimental effect of disadvantaging some creators (with high cj ’s, who produce low Qj) and increasing the power of the already dominant creators. Similarly, a typical two-part or two-block tariff—one that offers a higher reve­nue share .+ once Qj exceeds threshold—would also favor the most powerful creators. The platform could do the reverse: reduce the rate to .- after some thresh­old, but this would appear as a blatant attack against creators with the highest outputs. Alternately, the platform could turn a two-part tariff on its head and convert the .xed access fee into a subsidy S. For exam­ple, it could offer all creators free use of its develop­ment or production resources up to some scale qˆ while simultaneously increasing the platform’s share of rev­enues (i.e., lowering .) for the residual revenues. That is, creator j’s payoff from supplying Qj output 
Qj
to the platform would change from . R(Q) to
Q q
S +(. -..)Qj -ˆ R(Q). Ultimately, the challenges 
Q 
caused by a single nondiscriminatory rate may well cause platforms to adopt full nonlinear pricing or, more likely, an ef.cient form of traditional nonlinear pricing, such as tiers of two-or three-part tariffs (Bagh and Bhargava 2013). 
5. Conclusion 
This paper presents a general framework to model and analyze the economics of three-sided platforms that mediate between consumers, creators, and adver­tisers. These platforms attract consumers on the strength of outputs from creators, thereby attracting advertisers who wish to reach these consumers and motivating creators with a revenue-sharing arrange­ment on ad payments. The model particularly focuses on the interplay among numerous (possibly thou­sands of) creators and between creators and the plat­form’s design parameters. It provides new insights about how the heterogeneous characteristics of crea­tors affect their contribution to the platform, the im­pact of the revenue-sharing design, and how the level of concentration in the creator layer interacts with cre­ator characteristics and platform design factors. I also discuss how the platform’s decision on various design parameters affects the performance of this three-sided platform ecosystem. The framework provides a foun­dation for analysis of a range of additional issues in such multisided platforms, including those related to platform competition, market power, and anticompet­itive practices. Although it assumes that the platform generates revenue through advertising, the main re­sults should apply to other forms of revenue genera­tion, including charging viewers a subscription fee for access to content. 
The framework has several limitations that create opportunities for additional research. The model as­sumes that a higher scale automatically brings more diversity: for example, that more content and more creators attract more diverse viewers, which, in turn, brings in more advertisers then yet more creators and more viewers. The model does not explicitly consider alternate genres of content or whether scale can have different effects on different genres, for example, edu­cational or violent content. Similarly, it does not cap­ture behavior of individual viewers, consider which viewers are shown which ads, or capture heterogene­ity in advertisers’ response to platform design charac­teristics that affect viewer distaste for ads. Also, although the paper discusses the impact of providing stand-alone bene.ts or .rst-party content, it requires more speci.city and extensions to identify the optimal level of investments on these factors. It would also be fruitful to consider platforms on which creators are motivated not solely by their share of platform reve­nues or when “free” creators coexist with a relatively smaller cadre of paid creators. With regard to ad rev­enues with an implied pay-per-impression model, it might be enriching to explicitly analyze alternative ad payment models under broader conditions in­volving incomplete information or asymmetric risks or when intermediaries are involved to manage ad­vertising (Dellarocas 2012). Additional issues to con­sider are the dynamics of revenue-sharing between the early versus mature stages of the platform and multidimensional creators who produce multiple groups of content under a single strategic decision maker. 

Acknowledgments 
The author is grateful to Darin Laframboise (Okta), Ram­nik Arora (FTX), Mingdi Xin (University of California Ir­vine), and Xinxue Qu (Notre Dame) for useful comments; to Sanjana Sivakumar (University of California Davis) for graphics support; and to Chet Kapoor and Google, Inc., for supporting the study of platforms through a research excellence gift. 
Appendix 



A.1. Some Simple Numerical Examples 
Example A.1 (Creator’s Costs from Uniform Distribution). Suppose there are nine creators in the ecosystem with cost indices distributed uniformly in the interval [4, 6]. Also,
v
1 ßQfe-bp e-bp
suppose f 2 in A so that A ß Q . Then, in equilibrium, K 5, and the highest-cost creators are un­able to earn a pro.t from supplying content to the plat­
form. The .ve lowest cost creators have output shares Qj 
Q 
{0:4, 0:3, 0:2, 0:1, 0} (the .nal one, zero, is included for completeness). 
Example A.2 (More Homogeneous Creators). Suppose there are nine creators in the ecosystem with cost indices distributed uniformly in the interval [14, 16] and with
v 
e-bp
A ß Q . Then, in equilibrium, K 8, and only the highest cost creator is excluded. The .rst eight creators’ 
Qj
output shares are {0:235, 0:204, 0:172, 0:141, 0:109, 0:078,
Q 
0:046, 0:015}. 
Example A.3 (Costs from Right-Skewed Distribution). Suppose there are nine creators in the ecosystem with cost
v 
e-bp
indices (3,4,5,7,9,12,15,19,24), and A ß Q . Then, in equilibrium, K 2, and only the two lowest cost creators can pro.tably supply content with output shares 
Qj 52 
7, .
Q 7 


A.2. Technical Details and Proofs 
Proof of Lemma 1. Starting with .(p; Q)((1 - .)p - .d)e-bpß(Q)- c(Q), compute the optimality con­
..
dition 0. This yields e-bpß(Q)((1 - .)-
.p 
b(1 - .)p - .d)) 0, leading to the result p *(Q) 1 b + .d , and
1-. 
the corresponding A*(Q) ß(Q)e-bp* , which holds when 
A*(Q) is below the threshold A(Q), that is, 
-1-b.d a(Q)=(n + d)e1-.ß(Q). When this fails to hold, then the equilibrium is a saturation advertising level with 
a(Q) 1 ß(Q)(n+d)
A , p log e . The boundary solution A* 0
n+d b a(Q)is avoided because the negative exponential advertising demand function implies nonzero density at arbitrarily high p. Alternately, if the platform were to auction off the ads, then the expected per-ad price p discovered in a second-price auction when A ads are shown in a unit time interval is the Ath order statistic arising from the density 
8
function f(u), that is, the value p such that Af (u)du. 
p 
Maximizing p · A using this relationship yields the equilib­rium result. w 
Proof of Proposition 1. Using Equation (3), compute the simultaneous set of .rst-order optimality conditions for 
.pj
the platform’s creators, (Qj, Q-j) 0. This yields the set
.Qj 
of j simultaneous equations, 
.p * e-bp* ß(Q)
.j : cj ß(Q)- Qj - ß (Q) , (A.1a)
QQ 
1 cjQ
Qj ß(Q) ß(Q)- .p * e-bp* - ß (Q)
Q 
ß(Q) cjQ (A.1b)
1 - : ß(Q)- ß (Q) .R(Q)
Q 
=0, Assumption 1 =0, IR constraint 
ß(Q)e-bp ß(Q)
Because R(Q) , the ratio equals the ra-
R(Q) ß(Q) cj = .R(Q)
-ß (Q)
Q
tio 
R(Q) . Note that the IR requirement is an Q 
-R (Q) Q implicit statement because the Qj equations are valid only for those creators that satisfy the IR constraint given the Q-j choices of all other creators who are feasible in this way. And Q must be computed by aggregating across only those creators that earn a positive payoff. Denote the number of such feasible creators as K so that (because the cj’s are arranging from lowest to highest cost), the set of feasible creators is {1, :::, K}. Further, let CK denote 

c1 +:::+cK 
K , the average cost parameter across these creators. Adding up all the equations represented by Equation (A.1b) across all feasible creators yields the result. w 
Proof of Proposition 2. For convenience, write 
ßp * e-bp* 
Z . Solving the simultaneous decisions game yields 
the series of .rst-order optimality conditions of the form Q 1 - cjQ1-f 
Qj ,valid for all creators j that get nonnega-
1-f.Z tive pro.t in equilibrium, that is, cj = . (QfZ). Aggregating 
Q 
these over the feasible creators yields 
Now, the IR constraints are of the form cj = Plug-
Q  Q CKQ1-f K 1 -1 - f .Z  (A.2a)  
=  1 - f K  CKQ1-f 1 - .Z  (A.2b)  
= Q  .Z(K -(1 - f))KCK  1 1-f  (A.2c)  
Q1-f=  (K -(1 - f)).Z :KCK  (A.2d)  
.Z  

Q1-f . ging in Q1-f from the preceding yields the requirements 
KCK
cj =(K-(1-f). Because the cj’s are arranged in increasing or­
der, it is suf.cient that this equation be satis.ed for crea­tor K, yielding the result. 
The condition for an interior advertising solution is 
A = a(Q)= a(Q)
, that is, ßQfe-bp* . If this holds for all Q, then 
n+d n+d 
an interior solution is guaranteed. If not, that is, it fails at low values of Q but holds at higher values (this is the only possibility because a(Q) grows at a faster rate than ß(Q)), then it must be veri.ed at Q given in Equation 
(8). 
f 
1-f
Multiplying both sides of the equation by Q yields the 
(.p *A) K-(1-f)
point Q CKK . The interior solution is obtained 
when A*(Q) at this point is below the threshold a(Q); then 
n+d plugging in the interior p * yields the Equation (10) condi­tion for the interior solution. When this condition is not satis.ed, then, for given Q, the optimal advertising level is A a(Q), which is less than A*(Q) given in Equation (2),
n+d 
and the ad revenue p · A available for sharing with crea­
*
tors is also lower than p · A* . Because of this, creators’ outputs are also lower, leading to a content level Q˜ < Q, because of which the platform attracts fewer viewers, fur­ther lowering the maximum level of advertising it can support. w 
.K
Proof of Corollary 2. = 0 follows from Equation (7)
.f 
because the RHS term (on the right of the = sign) gets 
.Qj=Q
smaller as f increases. For , rewrite Equation (9)as 
.f 
1 - cj
QQj 1- 1 f - C ckj 1- 1 f - 1 . The derivative with f is (1- 1 f)2 Ck , 
proving the result. .Q > 0 
follows 
trivially 
from 
Equation 
(8). w
.f 
Proof of Corollary 3. We employ the chain rule .Q 
.. 
.Q1-f .Q1-f 
= and note that, at the optimal per-ad price, .p 
.. .Q .. .d 
(1-.)2 and 1- pbp (- 1- .d.()+ 1- b ..d) , valid when p is bounded, that is, 
b > 0, . < 1. Writing Q from Equation (4b) as (.Zpe-bp) 1 ß(K-(1-f))
1-f
Q , where Z ,
KCK 
.Q1-f. .p 11 - bp .p
Zpe-bp 1 +(1 - bp) Z.pe-bp + ,
.. p ... p .. 
Q1-f 
(A.3a) 
-1
.Q .Q1-f .Q1-f Q 11 - bp .p
+ (A.3b)
.. .. .Q 1 - f. p .. 
Q 11 b.d 2 
- : (A.3c)
1 - f. (1 - .)+ b.d 1 - . 
Trivially, the preceding expression is positive at . 0, 
.Q
negative at . 1, and the second derivative ..,. < 0, imply­ing that the .rst derivative is monotonically decreasing, positive until some threshold ., and then negative. w 
Proof of Lemma 2. To identify the value of . that maxi­mizes Q, set the .rst-order optimality condition .Q 0from 
.. 
Equation (A.3). Rearranging terms and solving (and ruling out Q 0), we see that the Q-maximizing value of . is 
.Q 
Sol: (1 - .)3 +(b.d)(1 - .)2 +(b.d)2(1 - .)-(b.d)2 0, 
(A.4) 
where the computations are valid as long as f > 0, p is bounded (i.e., b > 0and . < 1, which works so long as 
b > 0, . > 0, d > 0). The .rst three terms in the cubic equation are positive, and the last term is negative with a single change in sign. Therefore, using Des­cartes’ rule of sign for polynomial functions, both equations yield a unique optimal value of . in the fea­sible range (0,1). Hence, the cubic equation yields a unique feasible value .Q. 
Now, consider the value of . that maximizes total ad revenue across the platform and creators with R(Q) ßQfp * e-bp* . The analysis proceeds in a similar way. 
.R(Q) .p 1 - bp f .Q
R(Q)+ 0 (A.5a)
.. .. pQ .. .p 1 - bp f 1 .p 1 - bp
= R(Q) ++ 0 
.. p 1 - f. .. p (A.5b) (from Eq: 16) .p 1 - bp 1 f
= R(Q)+ 0 (A.5c)
.. p 1 - f.(1 - f)
2
f b.d 1
- 0 (using Eq: 12) (A.5d)
. 1 - . (1 - .)+ b.d 
again yielding a cubic equation in ., 

Figure A.1. (Color online) How Equation (13b) as a Function of . Changes withanIncrease in f (Left Panel) and b, ., d (Right 
Panel) 


f(1 -.)3 +(b.df)(1 -.)2 +(1 -.)(b.d)2 -(b.d)20: (A.6) This has a single change of sign, thus assuring a single feasible optimal value .R(Q). 
Proof of Corollary 4. First, to see the effect of changes in f, write the last two terms in Equation (13b) (i.e., (b.d)2 (1 -
f 
.)-(b.d)2 ) as -. (b.d)2. These are the only two terms involv­
ff 
ing f and trivially increasing in f. Now consider how Equation (13b)yields .R(Q).Note that, at . 0, the equation evaluates to 1 +b.d > 0, and at . 1, it is -(b.d)2 and has a
f 
higher value as f increases (see left panel of Figure A.1). Hence, the point at which it cuts the horizontal axis (i.e., the optimal value of .) is increasing in f. 
Next, consider the effect of b, ., d. Because these are all positive and all occur together in multiplicative form in Equation (13b), the optimal value .R(Q) varies identically across all three. Consider, for illustration, a change in b. The expression in Equation (13b) evaluates to 1 +b.d > 0 at . 0 and increases with b.At . 1, the expression is 
-(b.d)2 
and, therefore, reduces as b increases (see right
f 
panel of Figure A.1); therefore, the intersection with the horizontal axis reduces because the equation’s joint deriv­ative with . and b is positive. w 
Proof of Corollary 5. As in the proof for Corollary 4, consider the behavior of Equation 
(13b) against .. The so­
lution .Q is identical to .R(Q) for f 1. For lower values of f, .Q remains the same as .R(Q) falls, hence widening the gap between the two (or, conversely, getting narrower as f increases). w 
Endnotes 
1 See https://www.forbes.com/sites/maddieberg/2020/12/18/ 
how-nine-year-old-ryan-kaji-youtubes-30-million-man-just-keeps­
getting-richer/ 
and, about TikTok, “People flock to TikTok to watch scripted clips from talented creators, not communicate with their friends.” See https://digiday.com/media/how-tiktok-is­
taking-lessons-from-the-record-industry-in-in-building-a-media­
business/. 
2 This is an implication of the negative exponential price function for advertising demand. 
3 See https://instapage.com/blog/bing-ads-vs-google-ads. 4 See https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/29/apple-tried-to-lure­
amazon-video-app-with-lower-15percent-fee-eddy-cue-email.html. 
5 See https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/technology/apple-app­
store-airbnb-classpass.html. 
6 See https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/24/epic-games-ceo-tim­
sweeney-apple-crippled-app-store-with-30percent-cut.html. 
References 
Amaldoss W, Du J, Shin W (2021) Media platform’s content provi­sion strategy and source of pro.ts. Marketing Sci. 40(3):527–547. 
Bagh A, Bhargava HK (2013) How to price discriminate when tariff size matters. Marketing Sci., 32(1):111–126. 
Bhargava HK (2021) Bundling for .exibility and variety: An eco­nomic model for multiproducer value aggregation. Management Sci. 67(4):2365–2280. 
Calvano E, Polo M (2020) Strategic differentiation by business mod­els: Free-to-air and pay-TV. Econom. J. (London) 130(625):50–64. 
Dellarocas C (2012) Double marginalization in performance-based advertising: Implications and solutions. Management Sci. 58(6): 1178–1195. 
Dewan R, Freimer M, Zhang J (2002) Managing web sites for pro.t­ability: Balancing content and advertising. Proc. 35th Annual Ha­waii Internat. Conf. System Sci. (IEEE), 2340–2347. 
Evans DS (2008) The economics of the online advertising industry. Rev. Network Econom. 7(3):359–391. 
Godes D, Ofek E, Sarvary M (2009) Content vs. advertising: The impact of competition on media .rm strategy. Marketing Sci. 28(1):20–35. 
Gupta S (2009) Customer-based valuation. J. Interactive Marketing 23(2):169–178. 
Gupta S, Mela CF (2008) What is a free customer worth? Armchair calculations of nonpaying customers’ value can lead to .awed strategies. Harvard Bus. Rev. 86(11):102–109. 
Jain S, Qian K (2021) Compensating online content producers: A theoretical analysis. Management Sci. Forthcoming. 
Jiang B, Tian L, Zhou B (2019) Competition of content acquisition and distribution under consumer multipurchase. J. Marketing Res. 56(6):1066–1084. 
Kumar S, Tan Y, Wei L (2020) When to play your advertisement? Optimal insertion policy of behavioral advertisement. Inform. Systems Res. 31(2):589–606. 
Liu Y, Feng J (2021) Does money talk? The impact of monetary in­centives on user-generated content contributions. Inform. Sys­tems Res. 32(2):394–409. 
McIntyre DP, Srinivasan A (2017) Networks, platforms, and strategy: Emerging views and next steps. Strategic Manage­ment J. 38(1):141–160. 
Oh J, Koh B, Raghunathan S (2015) Value appropriation between the platform provider and app developers in mobile platform mediated networks. J. Inform. Tech. Impact 30(3):245–259. 
Parker GG, Van Alstyne MW, Choudary SP (2016) Platform Revolu­tion: How Networked Markets Are Transforming the Economy—And How to Make Them Work for You, 1st ed. (W.W. Norton & Com­pany, New York). 

Peitz M, Valletti TM (2008) Content and advertising in the media: Pay-TV versus free-to-air. Internat. J. Indust. Organ. 26(4): 949–965. 
Shiller B, Waldfogel J (2013) The challenge of revenue sharing with bundled pricing: An application to music. Econom. Inquiry 51(2): 1155–1165. 
Sridhar S, Mantrala MK, Naik PA, Thorson E (2011) Dynamic mar­keting budgeting for platform .rms: Theory, evidence, and ap­plication. J. Marketing Res. 48(6):929–943. 
Tang Q, Gu B, Whinston AB (2012) Content contribution for reve­nue sharing and reputation in social media: A dynamic struc­tural model. J. Management Inform. Systems 29(2):41–76. 
Westcott K (2020) 2020 media and entertainment industry outlook. Technical report. Accessed April 6, 2021, https://www2.deloitte. 
com/us/en/pages/technology-media-and-telecommunications/ 
articles/media-and-entertainment-industry-outlook-trends.html. 
Zhu F, Liu Q (2018) Competing with complementors: An empirical look at Amazon.com. Strategic Management J. 39(10):2618–2642. 

Copyright 2022, by INFORMS, all rights reserved. Copyright of Management Science is the property of INFORMS: Institute for Operations Research and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. 


